# ML-Deep-Dive
Machine Learning is a field that is rapidly expanding within recent years and as such, there are millions of things to learn about. I wanted to learn more about the scikit-learn package and have a deeper understanding on how to implement ML algorithms for future projects. I also had quite an interest in sentiment analysis and emotion speech analysis, both of which had hundreds of tutorials online. Thus, I decided to start with these areas while keeping track of my progress, just in case I need them in the future. 

## What is this repo about?
This repo consists of three seperate python files, each related to Machine Learning. The first file **hello-iris.py** is basically the "Hello World" of Machine Learning where I learn about the basics of the scikit-learn package and use the iris dataset to train and test a model. This is a simple classfication model which utilizes different ML algorithms such as Decision Trees, Logistic Regression and K Nearest Neighbours. The accuracy of each algorithms are tested before using one of them to predict what a random sample might be. The second file **speech-analysis.py** is based on a tutorial by the Data-Flair website and essentially uses the RAVDESS dataset to train and test a model to see what emotions one might exhibit based on their speech. I thought it was an interesting project and wanted to see how it would be implemented. 

The final file, **feels-analysis.py**, is a simple sentiment analysis program which uses various reviews from yelp, amazon and imdb to train and test a model before predicting if a statement is positive or negative. The two ML algorithms I have chosen for this project are Logistic Regression and Multinomial Naive-Bayes, as I feel more comfortable with them. Both algorithms are trained and then tested on the dataset with a ratio of 0.75 : 0.25 (train : test) before their accuracies are then measured. These accuracies are then compared to see which was better at predicting one's sentiment, before narrowing it down to only one algorithm. The user can then insert a statement which would be analyzed to see if it was positive or negative. There are two ways for the user to input their statement, either by typing it out or speaking into a microphone. If the script predicts that the statement was negative, it will ask the user if they want to relax and a breathing exercise would ensue. The idea behind this program is a simple mental wellness app that allows user to speak or type how they feel about their day and the app would be able to calm or destress the user through several means, whether it be by listening to calming music or doing breathing exercises. I understand that there are various problems within this project, as the dataset used might not be the best to use and often times the sentiment might be predicted wrongly. Thus, future edits or updates are in order to make this a better script. 

## How do I run feels-analysis?
To run **feels-analysis**, simply download the file along with the "sentiment labelled sentences" zip folder and the Quiet_Time mp3 file. Then, make sure that they are all in the same folder and that the zip folder has been unzipped before running it. 
